hi I want to do a quick video on my
guitar the ones you see in my videos
this 2006 Epiphone Les Paul Standard
flus and I want to do a video on this
guitar because I've got a lot of
questions over about it over the past
year so about why the heck is sound so
good and I played this guitar right up
thanks to my buddies that play Gibson
Les Paul's and I've had it Gibson myself
and I this I can play this guitar the
plays just as well the tone is right up
there with those guitars and but it
doesn't play like that out of the box
then quite a bit of crazy this guitar to
get it to sound the way does typical
standard Epiphone Les Paul it is a plus
top mahogany body rosewood fingerboard
3-way toggle switch typical nothing
special out of the box um
what a beautiful guitar is pretty heavy
you know just typical let's follow what
I did to it out of the box for me uh
when I got this guitar I bought it with
with the intention to do to do upgrades
on it didn't want to go out and spend
the two grand on the Gibson uh and I
wanted to learn a bit more about you
know replaceable on parts of something
that I had done it some I have done some
parts but uh mostly the electronics the
pasta stuff I had I haven't messed
around with a whole
so this is what I did the first thing I
did which was most obvious for me was
replaced the tuners because the stock
Grover tuners on that episode were just
not very good you had to turn the guitar
half turn the Inaba half term for a
string with tuned up so I replace them a
plan away by locking itself cutting
tuners and these things are awesome 18
to 1 gear ratio you lock the string down
it locks the string in place and then
you just tune up and it cuts the excess
string at the end so quick easy and nice
upgrade I think the tuners cost tuning
machines cost me like 70 bucks so not a
big deal next thing I did was I replaced
a nut which is a very cheap very easy
upgrade cost me two bucks and we leave
three bucks for that nut or something
it's a tusk nut
you can also buy bone or graphite
they're all they're all good
I don't think one's a whole lot better
than over the other I've had all three
of them and it's all good material good
saying it all of them are heck of a lot
better than the plastic nut that comes
with it on the Epiphone stock you just
knocked the old one out you know with
the hammer and a chisel it should pop
right out and then put a couple of
Dossett Oh more glue on the wood on the
inside make sure you shave off any
excess glue or anything that's on there
make sure you have a nice flat surface
and then a couple drops a ton more no
more glued and no more
that and just set it down there you can
shave down the slots you know as need be
and other sides here so that it's the
same with this neck but a nice upgrade
you will notice a difference is
sustained you're open those are some a
lot better the next thing I did was I
changed out the entire circuit the whole
electronics I replaced it with the kid
from Aris guitar works and it's just
fantastic man it'll like taking a
blanket off your guitar tone you got the
they got the the super pots now and they
are I've tried to have had the regular
cts pots I have their original pots and
now they're super positive super pots
are the best volume pots of ever put my
guitar all the way down to zero just
incredible no loss in a bass or a treble
response and just sounds fantastic man
it gives you great tone man just it's
like I said it's like taking a blanket
off your talent comes with the CTS audio
taper pots on there and then the
especially designs of vintage Jensen oil
and paper caps and once again man those
things just give you a fantastic vintage
vintage vibe your guitar man that is
that has done wonderful things for my
guitar tone and then with it I was to
replace the the old Epiphone a toggle
switch with the pre wired switch craft
toggle switch from Aris guitar works it
comes pre-wired man you just put in your
guitar and solder up the the leads to
the pots and
and to the jack and that's it it's as
easy as that also came with a noose
witchcraft jack as well so I'm a sort of
basically ordered an entire kit from
them replace everything Jack toggle
switch pots the old wires and the caps
it's all vintage wiring in there all the
great it's silver braided of vintage
wire in there and yeah it was a great
upgrade for your especially if you have
an Epiphone to replace out all the
crappy Chinese or Korean a wiring that's
in there and then the last the last
upgrade and probably the most
significant were the pickups I went
through a I went through every kind of
pickup you could think of all the
Seymour Duncan's sh one through the SH
sticks tried them all I give some burst
buckers Gibson classic 57s what else did
GFS I tried the GFS is uh just tons of
pickups man it probably tried eight or
nine different pair of pickups none of
them did it for me and what I set alone
were the bare knuckle pickups and is
safe to say that I will never order a
different another
of pickups these pickups are fantastic
man and they're the best thing that you
can do for your guitar tone they are
just like it says on the website they're
absolutely telling monsters and in this
guitar I've got a vintage stormy Monday
and in the neck and a riff raff in the
British and that's what does it for me
man I get that nice trouble and a biting
that high attack response on the on the
bridge pickup very ECDC a go figure in
the riff rapid so it's kind of modeled
after Angus Youngstown and the stormy
Monday is very vintage perfect for blues
slow blues singing leads nails the slash
tone good pretty even great jazz pickup
as well so that's my guitar that's uh
that's why it sounds as good as it does
and hopefully that will give you guys
anybody just thinking about upgrading
their guitar give you guys some ideas of
what you can do to make your guitar
sound better have you got any questions
you can just email my YouTube account or
post the comments on my board and yeah
hopefully I can help you out so thanks
for watching